.TH "The AdvancePNG compressor" 1
.SH NAME
advpng \(hy The AdvancePNG compressor
.PD
.RE
.SH SYNOPSIS 
advpng [\(hyl, \(hy\(hylist] [\(hyz, \(hy\(hyrecompress] [\(hy0, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy0]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
[\(hy1, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy1] [\(hy2, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy2] [\(hy3, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy3]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
[\(hyf, \(hy\(hyforce] [\(hyq, \(hy\(hyquiet] [\(hyh, \(hy\(hyhelp] [\(hyV, \(hy\(hyversion]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
FILES...
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION 
The main purpose of this utility is to recompress png
files to get the smallest possible size.
.SH OPTIONS 
.TP
.B \(hyl, \(hy\(hylist FILES...
List the content of the specified files.
.TP
.B \(hyz, \(hy\(hyrecompress FILES...
Recompress the specified files. If the \(hy1, \(hy2, \(hy3
options are specified is used the smallest file
choice from the previous compressed data and the
new compression. If the \(hy0 option is specified the
file is always rewritten without any compression.
.TP
.B \(hy0, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy0
Set the compression level to \(a"none\(a". The file are
only stored and not compressed. The file is always
rewritten also if it\(cqs bigger.
.TP
.B \(hy1, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy1
Set the compression level to \(a"normal\(a". This is the
default level of compression.
.TP
.B \(hy2, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy2
Set the compression level to \(a"extra\(a". It\(cqs SLOW.
.TP
.B \(hy3, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy3
Set the compression level to \(a"extreme\(a". It\(cqs VERY
SLOW.
.TP
.B \(hyf, \(hy\(hyforce
Force the use of the new file also if it\(cqs bigger.
.SH COPYRIGHT 
This file is Copyright (C) 2002 Andrea Mazzoleni
.SH SEE ALSO 
advzip(1), advmng(1)
