.TH "AdvanceSCAN Roms Manager" 1
.SH NAME
advscan \- AdvanceSCAN Roms Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS 
advscan [\-c, \-\-cfg CONFIG] [\-r, \-\-rom] [\-s, \-\-sample]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\-k, \-\-disk] [\-a, \-\-add\-zip] [\-b, \-\-add\-bin]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\-d, \-\-del\-zip] [\-u, \-\-del\-unknown]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\-g, \-\-del\-garbage] [\-t,\-\-del\-text]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\-n, \-\-print\-only] [\-p, \-\-report]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\-f, \-\-filter FILTER]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\-v, \-\-verbose] < info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.PP
advscan [\-R, \-\-rom\-std] [\-S, \-\-sample\-std]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\-K, \-\-disk\-std]< info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.PP
advscan [\-i, \-\-ident] files... < info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.PP
advscan [\-l, \-\-bbs] < info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.PP
advscan [\-e, \-\-equal] < info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.PP
advscan [\-h, \-\-help] [\-V, \-\-version]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION 
advscan is a command line utility for maintaining a zipped
archive of roms and samples for AdvanceMAME, AdvanceMESS
and any other MAME derivative emulator.
.PP
The goal of advscan is to obtain a complete and perfect roms
and samples archive with differential merging.
.PP
Differential merging means that any game has its zip archive,
which contains all the rom files, which are not already in
the parent zip archive (if exists).
.PP
advscan has these features:
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Directly read, writes zip archives without decompressing
and recompressing them for best performance.
.IP \(bu
Add, copy, move and rename files in the zip
archives. Any rom that you have is placed
automatically in the correct zip.
.IP \(bu
Recognizes the text files added by rom sites and
deletes them.
.IP \(bu
Recognizes the text files added by the rom dumpers
and keeps or deletes them as your choice.
.IP \(bu
It\'s safe. In all the zip operations any file
removed or overwritten is saved in the
\`rom_unknown\' and \`sample_unknown\' directories and keep
for future uses. This will prevent any unwanted
remove operation.
.PD
.PP
but also has these misfeatures:
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Supports only roms and samples zipped.
.IP \(bu
Supports only roms organized with differential merging.
.IP \(bu
Doesn\'t support .chd files in subdirectories.
.PD
.SH GETTING STARTED 
To use AdvanceSCAN you need first to create and edit its textual
configuration file named \'advscan.rc\'. An example advscan.rc file
is provided in the distribution archive, but you can also write
it from scratch.
.PP
Let\'s start your preferred text editor and create the configuration
file advscan.rc with these options:
.PP
.RS 4
rom DIR_OF_YOUR_ROMS
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
rom_new DIR_OF_YOUR_ROMS
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
rom_unknown DIR_OF_REJECTED_ROMS
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
rom_import DIR_OF_ROMS_TO_IMPORT
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
The most important configuration option is the directory where
your roms are stored. This directory must be specified in the
\'rom\' and \'rom_new\' options.
The \'rom_unknown\' option is used to select the directory where
store the unused roms. AdvanceSCAN never deletes roms for safety,
so you need to specify this \'basket\' directory.
With the \'rom_import\' option you can specify the directory where
the roms to import resides. For example the update packs you want
to integrate in your roms. If you don\'t have any, omit this option.
.PP
To analyze the roms, AdvanceSCAN needs also the roms
information file from the emulator. This file can be created
with the command:
.PP
.RS 4
mame \-listxml > info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
Finally, you can now run AdvanceSCAN to fix your roms with
the command:
.PP
.RS 4
advscan \-R < info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
You can also generate a report of the state of your roms
running the command:
.PP
.RS 4
advscan \-r \-p < info.xml > report.txt
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.SH OPTIONS 
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-cfg CONFIG
Select the configuration file. If not specified is
assumed the file \`advscan.rc\' in the current
directory.
.TP
.B < info.xml
To operate advscan needs always as input a rom
information file. It can be generally created with
the \-listxml options of the emulator.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-rom
Operates on roms (.zip files). All the next commands
will operate on your roms.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sample
Operates on samples. All the next commands will
operate on your samples.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-disk
Operates on disks (.chd files). All the next commands
will operate on your disks.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-add\-zip
Add the missing rom zips. Any missing zip archive
for which at least one rom is available will be created.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-add\-bin
Add, rename and substitute all the necessary files
in the existing zip archives. No new zip archives
are created, only the already present zip files are
modified. No file is deleted. Anyway, some files may
be overwritten. Any file overwritten is saved in
the \`rom_unknown\' or \`sample_unknown\' directory in
a zip archive with the same name of the original
one.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-del\-zip
Remove any unknown zip or chd archive. Any archive
removed is saved in the \`rom_unknown\',
\`sample_unknown\' or \`disk_unknown\' directory.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-del\-unknown
Remove any unknown file from the existing zip
archives. Any file removed is saved in the
\`rom_unknown\' or \`sample_unknown\' directory in a
zip archive with the same name of the original one.
Only binary files are removed, all the text files
are keep.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-del\-garbage
Remove any garbage file from the zip archives. A
garbage file is an advertising text file added
generally by a rom site. The files removed are not
saved.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-del\-text
Remove any text file from the zip archives. Any
file removed is saved in the \`rom_unknown\' or
\`sample_unknown\' directory in a zip archive with the
same name of the original one.
.TP
.B \-R, \-\-rom\-std
Shortcut for the options \-rabdug. It does all the
previous operations on roms except removing text
files.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-sample\-std
Shortcut for the options \-sabdug. It does all the
previous operations on samples except removing text
files.
.TP
.B \-K, \-\-disk\-std
Shortcut for the options \-kd. It moves any unknown
disk file in the disk_unknown directory.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-print\-only
Don\'t modify anything, it only shows operations.
This option prevents any changes made by the
previous commands. The operations are only printed and
NOT executed.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-report
Write an extensive text report with the list of
good, bad and missing roms or/and samples. The
content of any zip archive with missing files is
printed. You must also specify the \-r or/and \-s
options.
.TP
.B \-P, \-\-report\-file
Write a small text report with information on the
present files, listing incomplete, duplicate or
missing required zips.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-filter FILTER
Apply a specific filter at the rom list. Check the
FILTERS chapter for a detailed list of filters available.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print a more verbose report. The content of any zip
archive is printed if it contains at least one
unknow or bad rom file.
.SH INFORMATION OPTIONS 
The following options are used only to print information.
These options don\'t need the configuration file and don\'t
access you roms.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-ident files...
Identify the files specified. Only the information
present in the info file is used.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-bbs
Print a standard \`.bbs\' files with the description
of all the roms in the info file.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-equal
Print a list of all the duplicate roms present in
the info file. Only the information present in the
info file is used.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print a short help screen.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print the program version.
.SH IDENTIFICATION 
Rom files are identified by their crc and size. The roms
are not really decompressed, but the crc values stored in
the zip archives are used. If a rom has an incorrect crc or
size, but it has a correct name, it\'s maintained if
doesn\'t exist a valid alternative.
.PP
Sample files are identified only by their names. This
limits the possible operations. Essentially advscan can
report only missing samples.
.PP
Garbage files are identified by their size and crc.
.PP
All the others files are identified with this algorithm:
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
If the name is like *.sam, *.wav it\'s considered an
unknown binary file.
.IP \(bu
If the name is like *.doc, *.txt, *.nfo,
*.diz, readme.* it\'s considered a text file.
.IP \(bu
If the size is a power of 2 it\'s considered an
unknown binary file.
.IP \(bu
Otherwise it\'s considered a text file.
.PD
.SH CONFIGURATION 
To run advscan you need two files. The rom information
file and the configuration file.
.PP
The rom information file is the file that contains the
information of all the roms used by the emulator. It can
be made with the command:
.PP
.RS 4
mame \-listxml > info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
This file is expected as input of advscan. So, you can use
this command:
.PP
.RS 4
advscan [options] < info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
Or combine the two commands together:
.PP
.RS 4
mame \-listxml | advscan [options]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
The configuration file is a text file that describes your
directories structure. You can use absolute path or
relative path. Relative path is relative to the current
directory from where you run advscan.
.PP
In Unix the PATH separator is \`:\'. In DOS and Windows the PATH
separator is \`;\'. The following options are expressed with the
Unix format.
.TP
.B rom PATH:PATH...
List of paths where the roms are placed. These are
the zip archives, which are modified and fixed.
.TP
.B rom_new PATH
Single directory where the new created zip archives are
placed. It\'s STRONGLY suggested to put this path
ALSO in the \`rom\' specification. Otherwise at the
next run the zip archives are recreated.
.TP
.B rom_import PATH:PATH...
List of directory trees where other roms files are
placed. These are used for importing rom file missing
in rompath. These files are only read and never
modified in any way. It\'s very useful to insert
here any rom directories of any other arcade
emulators. When a new game will be supported the rom
archive will be made automatically.
.TP
.B rom_unknown PATH
Single directory where unknown rom zip archives will be
moved. In this directory is inserted any rom file
removed from the rom zip archives. However, any rom
file is automatically deleted by advscan if it\'s
duplicated in an archive listed on the \`rom\' or
\`rom_import\' options.
.TP
.B sample PATH:PATH...
List of paths where the samples are placed. These
are the zip archives, which are modified and fixed.
.TP
.B sample_unknown PATH
Single path where unknown sample zip archives will
be moved. In this directory is inserted any sample
file removed from the sample zip archives.
.TP
.B disk PATH:PATH...
List of paths where the disks are placed. These
are the chd archives.
.TP
.B disk_unknown PATH
Single path where unknown disk chd archives will
be moved.
.PP
If the \-c option is not specified the configuration file
is read from ./advscan.rc.
.PP
The files advscan.rc.linux and advscan.rc.dos are two
examples of configuration files.
.SH DAMAGED FILES 
If a damaged .zip or .chd file is detected, it\'s renamed
with a new name appending the extension \[dq].damaged\[dq].
For .chd file it may happen that the file is a disk image
with an old format.
.PP
If the rename operation isn\'t possible the program aborts.
.PP
Please note that the program doesn\'t execute an
extensive test to detect damaged files.
.SH FILTERS 
As default advscan uses all the rom definitions, including also
unplayable games. If you prefere you can use only a subset
of the roms defined with the \-\-filter option.
.PP
The filters available are:
.RS 4
.PD 0
.HP 4
.I working
Use only working roms. A working rom is a rom
reported working or a rom needed by another working
rom. A rom is reported working if it isn\'t marked
with the \[dq]preliminary\[dq] flag in the driver, video or
sound. This should be the preferred filter which only
store playable games.
.HP 4
.I preliminary
Use only roms which are not in the \[dq]working\[dq]
subset.
.HP 4
.I working_parent
Use only working parent roms from the
\[dq]working\[dq] subset excluding clones. If a parent rom
is not working but it has a working clone, both
the parent and the clone are used.
This is the preferred filter if you want only one
working game for any parent/clones group.
.HP 4
.I working_clone
Use only roms which  are in the \[dq]working\[dq]
subset but not in the \[dq]working_parent\[dq] subset.
.PD
.RE
.PP
For example, if you want to keep preliminary and working roms in
different directories, you can setup two different advscan.rc files
with different directories but sharing the \`rom_unknown\' dir to allow
automatic rom moving between the two sets.
If this is your configuration, to update your romset, you need to
run advscan three times:
.RS 4
.PD 0
.HP 4
.I on working set
To export preliminary roms in the
rom_unknown dir.
.HP 4
.I on preliminary set
To import preliminary roms and export
working roms in the rom_unknown dir.
.HP 4
.I on working set
To import working rom from the
rom_unknown dir.
.PD
.RE
.PP
For example:
.PP
.RS 4
advscan \-R \-c advscan\-wrk.rc \-f working < advmame.xml > rom_wrk.log
advscan \-R \-c advscan\-pre.rc \-f preliminary < advmame.xml > rom_pre.log
advscan \-R \-c advscan\-wrk.rc \-f working < advmame.xml > rom_wrk.log
.RE
.SH REPORT FORMAT 
The report generated with the \-p option contains some text
tag explained here:
.TP
.B rom_good
A recognized good rom. The rom is recognized by its
name, crc and size.
.TP
.B rom_bad
A recognized bad rom with an incorrect size or crc.
The rom is recognized by its name.
.TP
.B rom_miss
A missing rom.
.TP
.B disk_bad
A recognized bad disk with an incorrect hash.
The disk is recognized by its name.
.TP
.B nodump_good
A fake \[dq]NO GOOD DUMP KNOWN\[dq] rom. The rom is
recognized by its name, size and crc.
.TP
.B nodump_miss
A missing \[dq]NO GOOD DUMP KNOWN\[dq] rom. It\'s the normal
condition, a no dump rom must be missing.
.TP
.B nodump_bad
A recognized bad \[dq]NO GOOD DUMP KNOWN\[dq] rom. The rom is
recognized by its name.
.TP
.B sound_good
A recognized good sound sample. The sample is
recognized by its name.
.TP
.B sound_miss
A missing sound sample.
.TP
.B text
An unknown text file.
.TP
.B binary
An unknown binary file.
.TP
.B garbage
A recognized garbage file. A garbage file is an
advertising text file added generally by a rom
site. The file is recognized by its name, size and
crc.
.SH EXAMPLES 
For the generic use you need to run advscan with the
options:
.PP
.RS 4
advscan \-R < info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
This command will fix your rom collection (without removing
the precious text files).
.PP
To check in advance all the operations that will be done
you can use the command:
.PP
.RS 4
advscan \-R \-n < info.xml
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
which only show the operations.
.PP
To only generate an extensive report of your rom set you
can use the command:
.PP
.RS 4
advscan \-r \-p < info.xml > report.txt
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
To increase the verbosity of the printed information you
can add the \-v switch.
.SH COPYRIGHT 
This file is Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2008 Andrea Mazzoleni, Filipe Estima
.SH SEE ALSO 
advdiff(1)
