.TH "The AdvanceZIP compressor" 1
.SH NAME
advzip \(hy The AdvanceZIP compressor
.SH SYNOPSIS 
advzip [\(hya, \(hy\(hyadd] [\(hyx, \(hy\(hyextract] [\(hyl, \(hy\(hylist]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
[\(hyz, \(hy\(hyrecompress] [\(hyt, \(hy\(hytest] [\(hy0, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy0]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
[\(hy1, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy1] [\(hy2, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy2] [\(hy3, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy3]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
[\(hyN, \(hy\(hynot\(hy zip] [\(hyp, \(hy\(hypedantic] [\(hyq, \(hy\(hyquiet]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
[\(hyh, \(hy\(hyhelp] [\(hyV, \(hy\(hyversion] ARCHIVES... [FILES...]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION 
The main purpose of this utility is to recompress and test
the zip archives to get the smallest possible size.
.PP
For the recompression the 7\(hyZip (www.7\(hyzip.com) Deflate
implementation is used. This implementation generally
gives 5\(hy10% more compression than the zLib Deflate
implementation.
.PP
For experimental purpose also the 7\(hyZip LZMA algorithm is
available with the \(hyN option. In this case, the generated
zips WILL NOT BE USEABLE by any other program. To make
them useable you need to recompress them without the \(hyN
option. Generally this algorithm gives 10\(hy20% more
compression than the 7\(hyZip Deflate implementation.
.SH OPTIONS 
.TP
.B \(hya, \(hy\(hyadd ARCHIVE FILES...
Create the specified archive with the specified
files. You must specify only one archive.
.TP
.B \(hyx, \(hy\(hyextract ARCHIVE
Extract all the files on the specified archive. You
must specify only one archive.
.TP
.B \(hyl, \(hy\(hylist ARCHIVES...
List the content of the specified archives.
.TP
.B \(hyz, \(hy\(hyrecompress ARCHIVES...
Recompress the specified archives. If the \(hy1, \(hy2,
\(hy3 options are specified is used the smallest file
choice from: the previous compressed data, the new
compression and the uncompressed format. If the \(hy0
option is specified the archive is always rewritten
without any compression.
.TP
.B \(hyt, \(hy\(hytest ARCHIVES...
Test the specified archives. The tests may be
extended with the \(hyp option.
.TP
.B \(hyN, \(hy\(hynot\(hyzip
Use the LZMA algorithm when compressing. The
generated zips will not be readable by any other
application!
.TP
.B \(hyp, \(hy\(hypedantic
Be pedantic on the zip tests. If this flag is
enabled some more extensive test on the zip
integrity are done. These test are generally not
done by other zip utilities.
.TP
.B \(hy0, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy0
Set the compression level to \(a"none\(a". The file are
only stored and not compressed. This option is
very useful to expand the archives of .png and .mp3
files. These files are already strongly compressed,
trying to compress them another time is really a
waste of time and resource. This is specifically
true for the frontends that need to access them a
lot of times.
.TP
.B \(hy1, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy1
Set the compression level to \(a"normal\(a". This is the
default level of compression.
.TP
.B \(hy2, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy2
Set the compression level to \(a"extra\(a". It\(cqs SLOW.
.TP
.B \(hy3, \(hy\(hyshrink\(hy3
Set the compression level to \(a"extreme\(a". It\(cqs VERY
SLOW.
.SH COPYRIGHT 
This file is Copyright (C) 2002 Andrea Mazzoleni
.SH SEE ALSO 
advpng(1), advmng(1)
