.TH "History For AdvanceSCAN" 1
.SH NAME
advscan \(hy History For AdvanceSCAN
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.17 2012/12 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
In the report output (\(hy\(hyreport) don\(cqt complain about preliminary BIOS.
.IP \(bu
Now in git repository.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.16 2012/11 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Added support for CHD versions 4 and 5.
.IP \(bu
Fixed the printout of the CHD hash.
.IP \(bu
Fixed samples extension handling.
.IP \(bu
Removed zlib.dll from the Windows distribution. It\(cqs no more required.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.15 2012/11 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Fixed sampleof recognition.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.14 2008/12 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Fixed the recognition of the XML \(cqinbios\(cq atttribute. It\(cqs an
important fix if you use the \(cqfilter\(cq feature.
.IP \(bu
Fixed support for 64 bits architectures.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.13 2004/12 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
New rom zips are now created only if at least one unique
rom is found. Roms shared with other games don\(cqt
trigger the zip creation. For example, galaga88
and pacmania share the rom ns1\(hymcu.bin. This
functionality prevents the creation of the galaga88
zip from a correct copy of pacmania using only the
ns1\(hymcu.bin file.
.IP \(bu
Relaxed a consistency check for the local header in zip files.
The crc and size entries are allowed to contain the real
value also if a data descriptor is present.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.12 2004/11 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
In \(hylistinfo files are now allowed crc with the \(a"0x\(a"
prefix.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.11 2004/09 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Minor changes at the source. Removed the gamediff.* files.
.IP \(bu
Fixed a compilation problem with gcc 3.4.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.10 2004/08 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Added support for .chd files. Check the new \(hyK option.
.IP \(bu
The program now automatically renames any damaged .zip
and .chd file instead of aborting.
.IP \(bu
Updated the included expat library to version 1.95.8.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.9 2004/07 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Fixed a Mac OS X crash problem with XML files with
empty items.
.IP \(bu
Only the XML driver.status entry is now used to recognize
the game emulation status. Game not marked as
\(a"preliminary\(a" are considered working games.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.8 2004/04 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Added a filter capability able to filter in/out preliminary, parent
and clone  roms. For example you can now keep separated
preliminary and working roms.
.IP \(bu
Added support for xml format at advdiff.
.IP \(bu
Updated the expat library at version 1.95.7.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.7 2003/08 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Added support for reading XML info file.
.IP \(bu
Updated with automake 1.7.6.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.6 2003/05 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Fixed the support for zips with additional data descriptors.
.IP \(bu
Updated with autoconf 2.57 and automake 1.7.4.
.IP \(bu
Added support for the new \(oqnodump\(cq flag in MAME 0.68.
.IP \(bu
Removed the \(oqredump\(cq output because no more required.
Now MAME 0.68 outputs the correct crc and no more
the NOT version. No more ambiguity.
.IP \(bu
Some fixes for the gcc 3.3 compiler.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.5 2003/02 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Removed the recompression utilities. Now they are in the
AdvanceCOMP package.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.4 2002/12 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Fixed a bug in the advmng utility when it was called with
more than one file in the command line. The program
was incorrectly adding a PLTE chunk at rgb images.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.3 2002/11 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Fixed a bug in the advscan utility. When a .zip file was completly
removed the program was aborting with a \(a"Failed stat\(a" message
because it was trying to reread the just deleted file.
.IP \(bu
Added the support for the transparency tRNS chunk at the
advpng utility.
.IP \(bu
Improved the garbage detector for zipped roms.
.IP \(bu
Upgraded at the lastest Advance Library.
.IP \(bu
Fixes at the docs. [by Filipe Estima]
.IP \(bu
Minor changes at the autoconf/automake scripts.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.2 2002/08 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Added the advpng utility to compress the PNG files.
.IP \(bu
Added the advmng utility to compress the MNG files.
.IP \(bu
Added a Windows version.
.IP \(bu
Other minor fixes.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.1 2002/06 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Fixed an infinite loop bug testing some small damaged zips.
.IP \(bu
Removed some warning compiling with gcc 3.1.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 1.0 2002/05 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
First public release.
.IP \(bu
Fixed the compression percentage computation on big files.
.IP \(bu
The unknow .zip files are now deleted if they contains only
empty directories.
.IP \(bu
Added the \(hy\(hypedantic option at the advzip utility. These
tests are only done if requested.
.IP \(bu
Renamed all the \(a"unknow\(a" options in \(a"unknown\(a".
.IP \(bu
Fixed the reading of configuration file containing the \(rsr char.
.IP \(bu
Documentation fixes.
.IP \(bu
Other minor fixes.
.PD
.SH ADVANCESCAN VERSION 0.6\(hyBETA 2002/05 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Major revision.
.IP \(bu
Renamed AdvanceSCAN.
.IP \(bu
Updated to the last C++ standard.
.IP \(bu
General cleanup of the code.
.IP \(bu
Added the AdvanceDIFF and AdvanceZIP utility.
.PD
.SH MAMESCAN VERSION 0.5 2001/08 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Removed the options \(hyfix, \(hycat, \(hycollision.
.PD
.SH MAMESCAN VERSION 0.4 2000/02 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Added configure for msdos.
.PD
.SH MAMESCAN VERSION 0.3 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Minor revison.
.PD
.SH MAMESCAN VERSION 0.2 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Minor revison.
.PD
.SH MAMESCAN VERSION 0.1 1999/07 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
First version.
.PD
.SH MAMESCAN VERSION 0.0 1998/11 
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Posted in the MAME list the new listinfo command.
.PD
